Linux Operating System

19/oct

Create Linux system Installer Installer 
- Downloaded Linux Ubuntu 	(https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop)
- Download RUFUS tool that converts ISO files to bootable USB drive.  Follow instructions (https://www.onlogic.com/company/io-hub/how-to-dual-boot-windows-11-and-linux/)


FOO =			means insert file name here.

Kernel:			Kernel is the core of operating system. Glue between hardware and application i.e. Linux kernel	

Distribution:		Debian, Fedora, Suse, Other


Service:			programe that runs as a background process		i.e.	httpd, nfsd, ntpd, ftpd and named		







FileSystem:		Method for storing and organizing files in linux. 	i.e. ext3, ext4, FAT, XFS, NTFS and Btrfs		


X Window System:	Provides the standard toolkit and protocol to build graphical user interfaces on nearly all Linux System 		






Desktop Env:		GUI on the top of operating system.			GNOME, KDE, Xfce and Fluxbox	are the examples of desktop environments.
Command line:		Interface for typing commands on top of the operating system.
Shell:			Command line interpreter that interprets the command line input and instructs the operating system to perform any necessary tasks and command. i.e. bash, tcsh, and zsh
			
Large organizations use commercially supported Distributions from RedHad, Susie and Canonical (Ubuntu) 

Linux is a full multitasking multiuser operating system with built-in networking and service processes known as deamons.



BIOS:			Basic Input/Output System. When computer turned on, it runs the self test called POST (power-on self test). Bios software is stored on a ROM chip on the motherboard.

BootLoader:		That boots the operating syste.  Examples of boot loader GRUB & ISOLinux, dos u-boot . Once the post completed, control went to bootloader. Bootloader is stored on the Hard disk.
			Bootloader is responsible for loading the Kernel image and initial Ram disk or the file system into memory.

			Bootloader loads the kernel and the initial ram based file system into memory so it can be used directly by the kernel. 






			Most of other processes running trace their origin to init

			Init is responsible for keeping the system running and for shutting it down cleanly.









File systems supported by Linux:











		Root Directory and file system Hierarchy
















